# PeleC: An adaptive mesh refinement solver for compressible reacting flows

## Getting Started

To compile and run `PeleC`, one needs a C++ compiler that supports the C++17 standard. A hierarchical strategy for parallelism is supported, based on MPI, MPI + OpenMP, or MPI + GPU (CUDA/HIP/DPC++). The code should work with all major MPI and OpenMP implementations. PeleC should build and run with no modifications to the `make` system if using a Linux system with the GNU compilers, version 7 and above. The preferred build strategy for most users is to use GNU Make to build executables for individual cases as needed, from the directory containing the case files. CMake, although used mostly for testing, is also an option for building the code.

To run `PeleC` for a sample 3D flame problem:

```
cd PeleC/Exec/RegTests/PMF
make TPLrealclean && make realclean && make TPL && make -j
./Pele3d.xxx.yyy.ex example.inp
```

1. In the exec line above, xxx.yyy is a tag identifying your compiler and various build options, and will vary across platform. (Note that GNU compilers must be at least version 7, and MPI should be at least of standard version 3).

   a. To run with MPI support, ensure `USE_MPI = TRUE` in the `GNUmakefile` or specify it on the command line:

   ```
   make TPLrealclean && make realclean && make TPL USE_MPI=TRUE && make -j USE_MPI=TRUE
   mpiexec -n 4 ./PeleC3d.xxx.MPI.ex example.inp
   ```

   b. If the string `.MPI.` does not appear in your executable name, you have not successfully built PeleC with MPI support, and if you execute in parallel you will be running multiple instances of the solver in serial.

   c. See the `GNUmakefile` for other build options, including the compiler used (`COMP`), and certain model settings that must determined at compile time, such as the solver dimensionality (`DIM`) and the chemical mechanism used (`Chemistry_Model`).

2. The example is a 3D premixed flame, flowing vertically upward through the domain with no gravity. The lateral boundaries are periodic. A detailed hydrogen model is used. The solution is initialized with a wrinkled/perturbed 1D steady flame solution computed using Cantera (historically these used the PREMIX code). Two levels of solution-adaptive refinement are automatically triggered by the presence of the flame intermediate, HO2.

3. In addition to informative output to the terminal, periodic plotfiles are written in the run folder. These may be viewed with AMReX's [Amrvis](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex_html/Visualization.html), [VisIt](https://visit-dav.github.io/visit-website/), or [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org):

   a. In VisIt, direct the File->Open dialogue to select the file named "Header" that is inside each plotfile folder.

   b. In ParaView, navigate to the case directory, open the plotfile folder.

   c. With Amrvis, `$ amrvis3d plt00030`, for example.

## Dependencies

`PeleC` is built on the `AMReX` and `PelePhysics` libraries. PeleC also requires the [SUNDIALS](https://github.com/LLNL/sundials) ODE solver library.

## Development model

To add a new feature to PeleC, the procedure is:

1. Create a branch for the new feature (locally):

   ```
   git checkout -b AmazingNewFeature
   ```

2. Develop the feature, merging changes often from the development branch into your AmazingNewFeature branch:

   ```
   git commit -m "Developed AmazingNewFeature"
   git checkout development
   git pull                      # fix any identified conflicts between local and remote branches of "development"
   git checkout AmazingNewFeature
   git rebase development        # fix any identified conflicts between "development" and "AmazingNewFeature"
   ```

3. Build and run

   a. Build and run the full test suite using CMake and CTest (See the `Build/` directory for an example script). Please do not introduce warnings. PeleC is checked against `clang-tidy` and `cppcheck` in the CI. To use `cppcheck` and `clang-tidy` locally use these CMake options:

   ```
   -DPELE_ENABLE_CLANG_TIDY:BOOL=ON
   -DPELE_ENABLE_CPPCHECK:BOOL=ON
   ```

   b. Run `clang-tidy` by using an LLVM compiler and making sure `clang-tidy` is found during configure. Then `make` will run `clang-tidy` along with compilation. Once verifying `cppcheck` was found during configure, using the `make cppcheck` target should run its checks on the `compile_commands.json` database generated by CMake. More information on these checks can be seen in the CI files used for GitHub Actions in the `.github/workflows/` directory.

   c. To easily format all source files before commit, use the following command:

   ```
   find ./Source ./Exec \( -name "*.cpp" -o -name "*.H" -o -name "*.h" -o -name "*.C" \) -exec clang-format -i {} +
   ```

4. If you don't already have a fork of the PeleC repository, follow the [Github instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo) to create one. Then, push a feature branch to your forked PeleC repository:

   ```
   git remote add remotename git@github.com:remoteurl # add a remote pointing to the user's fork
   git push -u remotename AmazingNewFeature # Note: -u option required only for the first push of new branch
   ```

5. Submit a pull request through git@github.com:AMReX-Combustion/PeleC.git, and make sure you are requesting a merge against the development branch

6. Check the CI status on Github and make sure the tests passed for merge request

> **Note**:
> Github CI uses the CMake build system and CTest to test the core source files of PeleC. If you are adding source files, you will need to add them to the list of source files in the `CMake` directory for the tests to pass. Make sure to add them to the GNU make makefiles as well.